CHIPS 5.2 Consolidated Instructions #135
Aimee Oh
4 days ago in General

Pinned

Star

Watch

496
44
99
656
Views

8
Hi everyone,

We've compiled the setup instructions for CHIPS 5.2 assignment to reduce confusion and ensure you all are able to start from part 1:

This assignment is due on Oct 3, 2025 (Friday).

Instructions:

Step 1: Cloning the repo/getting the source code

Please do NOT clone the repo they have indicated. Please follow these instructions: 

1. Navigate to https://github.com/junfengy/rottenpotatoes-rails-intro.git.

2. Click on Use this template that is in green on the upper right of the screen. Click create a new repository . Name it rottenpotatoes-rails-intro.

3. Navigate back to your Codio assignment and clone the copied repository from your personal account by running this command:

git clone git@github.com:<YOUR GITHUB USERNAME>/rottenpotatoes-rails-intro

You may also run this command locally to complete the assignment locally.

4. Run cd rottenpotatoes-rails-intro to get to your project/assignment directory.

This will allow you to get the assignments and new, working source code. Do NOT clone the repo they indicate in the Guide.

5. Run 

sudo apt update 
sudo apt install libpq-dev
6. Install all gems bundle install

7. Run migrations and insert values:

bundle exec rake db:migrate
bundle exec rake db:seed
8. To ensure you can test your application locally in the Box URL, run export RAILS_DEVELOPMENT_HOSTS="${CODIO_HOSTNAME}-3000.codio.io". This will give you no output but will allow you to locally access your app.

9. Run rails s -b 0.0.0.0 and click on Box URL to ensure your app is running correctly locally. If your application does not open up on Codio, copy the Box URL and paste it into your web browser to open up the local application.

Step 2: Setting up Heroku

1. Make sure you log into Heroku at https://id.heroku.com/login. 

2. Navigate back to Codo and run heroku login -i.

3. Enter the email you used to sign up to heroku in Email:.

4. Navigate to Account Settings in your Heroku account (do this by clicking the gray circle at the top right) and scroll down to API Key where you can reveal your API key to copy and paste.

5. Copy and paste this API key to Password when prompted when logging in through the terminal in Codio.

Step 3: Create your Heroku app

If you have already created an app in Heroku and just want to connect this repo to your created app, continue to Step 4.

1. Run heroku create

2. This will create an app with a randomly generated app name.

Step 4: Connecting your Heroku app to your git/repo

1. Run heroku git:remote -a <HEROKU_APP_NAME>

2. Then, run

git status
git add [..] # stage the updated files
git commit -m [..] # write a message
3. Run heroku addons:create heroku-postgresql:essential-0 to add the postgres add-on to your app. This will incur costs. Remember to delete the database once you're done with the assignment and grading. This means that if you have run your autograder and are completed with the assignment, you can delete your resource.

NOTE: please wait for a few minutes before running the following commands. Your postgres add-on must be fully added for the next two commands to work.

4. Run 

heroku bundle exec rake db:migrate
heroku bundle exec rake db:seed
5. Run git push heroku master:main .

(If you have already created a new branch to work on your changes, you should run git push heroku <YOUR_BRANCH>:main).

This is the command that will deploy your committed changes to Heroku.

6. You should see a list of movies and checkboxes on the page. If your heroku app does not load or there's a problem. You should not continue.

Run heroku logs to view what errors that could have occured.

Step 5:  Start Assignment

1. Go to Part 1 and start the assignment.

Good luck, and please let us know if you have any questions.

This assignment is due on Oct 3, 2025 (Friday).